README.md, before:

# known-problems

A collection of well-known problems that occur in passive acoustic monitors.

# Why

Sharing the information about issues with acoustic sensors can be time saving for other people.
Researchers might experience the same issues and by sharing the workarounds and tools to deal
with the issues listed here people won't have to spend time trying ot figure out what happens.
It can also be useful when making a decision about which device to buy. Moreover, being a
technical document it can aid when questioning vendors about their product and possible issues. 

# Status

This was writing from our own experience with acoustic sensors, but we expect contributions
and additional resources/information to deal
with the issues and problems listed here. We are also working on solutions, developing
tools to solve them or contacting vendors to inform them of the practical 
aspects of their products.

Contributions are welcome and should be done through the [issues tab](https://github.com/ecoacoustics/known-problems/issues)
or by making a change through a pull-request.

Disclaimer: some of the information here may be out of date! If you have better information
then please let us know!

# Goal

It is our eventual goal that most of the problems documented can either be fixed,
or at least detected and omitted from large collections of ecoacoustics audio files.

[EMU](https://github.com/QutEcoacoustics/emu) (the Ecoacoustic Metadata Utility) is a tool
that fixes some of the problems documented.

# Manufacturers

- [Frontier Labs](https://github.com/ecoacoustics/known-problems/tree/main/frontier_labs)
- [Open Acoustics Device](https://github.com/ecoacoustics/known-problems/tree/main/open_acoustics_devices)
- [Wildlife Acoustics](https://github.com/ecoacoustics/known-problems/tree/main/wildlife_acoustics)

# Support

This This project is supported by the [Open Ecoacoustics](https://openecoacoustics.org/) project.
![The Open Ecoacoustics Logo](./media/OpenEcoAcoustics_horizontal_rgb.jpg)

Commit message:

Add in OE well known problems

README.md, after:

# known-problems

A collection of well-known problems that occur in passive acoustic monitors.

## Why

Sharing the information about issues with acoustic sensors can be time saving for other people.
Researchers might experience the same issues and by sharing the workarounds and tools to deal
with the issues listed here people won't have to spend time trying ot figure out what happens.
It can also be useful when making a decision about which device to buy. Moreover, being a
technical document it can aid when questioning vendors about their product and possible issues. 

## Status

This was writing from our own experience with acoustic sensors, but we expect contributions
and additional resources/information to deal
with the issues and problems listed here. We are also working on solutions, developing
tools to solve them or contacting vendors to inform them of the practical 
aspects of their products.

Contributions are welcome and should be done through the [issues tab](https://github.com/ecoacoustics/known-problems/issues)
or by making a change through a pull-request.

Disclaimer: some of the information here may be out of date! If you have better information
then please let us know!

## Goal

It is our eventual goal that most of the problems documented can either be fixed,
or at least detected and omitted from large collections of ecoacoustics audio files.

[EMU](https://github.com/QutEcoacoustics/emu) (the Ecoacoustic Metadata Utility) is a tool
that fixes some of the problems documented.

## Problems by Vendor/Manufacturer

- [Frontier Labs](./frontier_labs)
- [Open Acoustics Device](./open_acoustics_devices)
- [Wildlife Acoustics](./wildlife_acoustics)

## Generic problems with files

These a problems that are common to audio files but are not associated with any vendor.

- [Open Ecoacoustics](./open_ecoacoustics)

## Support

This This project is supported by the [Open Ecoacoustics](https://openecoacoustics.org/) project.
![The Open Ecoacoustics Logo](./media/OpenEcoAcoustics_horizontal_rgb.jpg)
