---
title: FL005 Generating incorrect `Subchunk2Size` header values
---
# Generating incorrect `Subchunk2Size` header values

| Problem ID | Manufacturer  | Affected Firmware | Fixed in firmware | Affected Hardware | Status        |
| ---------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| FL005      | Frontier Labs | 2.2; 2.99         | 3.00              | BAR               | Minor problem |

It appears that Frontier Labs writes an incorrect value for the `data` subchunk's
size field (known as `Subchunk2Size` or `cksize`). The value should be the size
of the data block, in bytes, and should be the equivalent of
`== NumSamples * NumChannels * BitsPerSample/8`. Essentially it is the size of
the PCM samples, which is the size of the file not including the WAV header.

Frontier Labs erroneously writes the total size of the file into the header
instead. On average this means the data size is off by `44` bytes (the standard
sized wav header) which is about 3 16-bit samples' worth.

Interestingly this problem was discovered while trying to create a validation
check for the corrupt files (see [this file](./FL003.md)) that BARs sometimes produce.

Update: It has been discovered that the "RIFF" chunk size is also off by `44` bytes. 
The value of the "RIFF" chunk size should be the remaining size of the file after 
itself (or the total size of the file minus the first 8 bytes). 

## Status

**Minor problem** - this problem no longer occurs in firmwares greater than `3.00`.

Any files produced with older firmwares still have issues though.

For files with simple wav headers 3 samples worth of error is
about 0.136 seconds of error.

## Status with vendor

Vendor has patched the problem in firmware `3.00`. Get updated firmware from [Frontier Labs](https://www.frontierlabs.com.au/software).

## Effects of the problem on common tools

### EMU

Emu can detect and repair affected files: <https://github.com/QutEcoacoustics/emu/blob/master/docs/fixes.md>

### Acoustics Workbench (Ecosounds, A2O)

-   While technically incorrect, all the values are small enough that they
    are omitted or ignored in our higher level code.
    
### Raven

- No effect, file opens normally.

### Audacity

- No effect, file opens normally

## Examples

https://connectqutedu.sharepoint.com/sites/QUTEcoacousticsAnon/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fsites%2FQUTEcoacousticsAnon%2FShared%20Documents%2Fknown%2Dproblems%2Ffrontier%5Flabs%2FFL005